Baby Nick took his nap in the car today while we ran errands around town. One minute he was singing full volume to the trucks and buses whizzing past, the next he was fast asleep with his fuzzy little head sideways and his face completely covered in the brownie we had given him to make a car ride into a treat.

It’s funny how predictably my heart swells with maternal adoration when I see my children sleeping. All their lovely, winning ways rush to mind and I wish they could stay so small and adorable forever because then life would always be perfect.

It is such a different feeling from the ones I have when they are awake. The rush and jumble of everything happening at once, of so many continuous needs and demands, the sheer cacophony of life lived with seven other people leaves little room for breath, much less reflection in the moment. We have lots of really great times when they’re awake, but never sentimental ones.

This answers something I’ve puzzled over for a while now. You know those grocery shopping moments when it takes every ounce of self-control to not completely lose it all over the cereal aisle? The toddler is whining about some candy (thoughtfully placed at eye level) and the big kids are playing tag just out of grabbing distance and then the infant starts climbing out of his seat belt and somebody suddenly announces they need the potty (even though you just left the potty five minutes ago.) Almost invariably, some misty-eyed old lady will approach to regale me with encouragements about this being the most precious time of life, and how they grow too quickly, and how I need to cherish every moment.

I think that having your children grown up and gone must be a similar experience to having them take a good long nap.