---
title: Routine
date: 2011-12-17 21:50:00
category: blog
tag: vintage
---
        A courageously truthful (and very dear) friend told me I would probably only find the contentment I so assiduously seek by facing down and embracing Routine. Which, let’s be clear, is my own personal bugaboo.

Hot tears rolled down my cheeks while I wept that nobody could possibly understand how hard that is for me, how deeply I loathe it, how many years I’ve spent in the fruitless task of learning it. “Still,” my friend gently pressed, “it seems the only way.”

So I blew my nose, put my house in order, and wearily went up to bed.

This morning I did everything too impossibly boring to write, and I kept my mind on it too. No, it wasn’t so bad, and yes, this afternoon was bathed in a warm golden halo of peace.

Since my kitchen was clean, I noticed the fat bag of asparagus turning on the shelf. I cooked that up into soup while humming “Just a Spoonful of Sugar Helps the Medicine Go Down”; then had enough clean counter space left to bake some bread.

We feasted for lunch, snow flying at the windows and shining little faces chatting around the table. Afterwards, I overheard Thomas and Polly singing the Celtic Allellujah together as they cleared dishes and settled down to make paper ornaments in a clean space. So adorable.

I was feeling like such a good, virtuous little hausfrau with my good, virtuous little family until, five minutes later, I nearly burst a blood vessel bawling out Peter. About something totally unimportant. Well, I suppose true and lasting peace takes more than a single morning to sink in. And I should get a party if I can keep such routines going for even a full week. But that’s something to shoot for.

Maybe there will be cake.