The Burning Bush hedges across the street are turning to flame. I hadn’t even noticed any southbound geese yet, so it was a bit of a shock to gaze over in a melancholy moment with my tea (because I amnot –no really not– going to pick up my book again until the kids are tucked in…. early bedtime, anyone?) 

 I am concerned to find the trumpeting onset of autumn, with all its cozy associations of woolly slippers and blankets and blazing hearths, bushels of fresh apples all rosy and crunchy and perfectly ripe, ginger cookies and pie for breakfast around our red lantern, somehow falling on a deaf heart this year. 

 I look over my shoulder at the fading summer, still so full of loose ends. For the past thirteen years, I have pointed everything to this exact autumn, as the culmination of Steven’s schooling and the startof all Things Which Come After. Now that we are right here in the middle of this over-thought day, our plans and sub-plans gone drastically awry, I find I want to wrap up, knit together, tidy the confusion and disappointment and inner struggle of the past few months into something like a picture of summer in my mind before moving on to such an unsure fall.  But I can’t, not ever. Those months are over and done and the only way I can think to move on is just to do it. If I’m honest, I want to hang in the doorway waiting for promises and assurances. But my only chance to meet the future is to stride out into it, swinging my arms andwhistling. 

 And noticing the very, very special blue of an autumn sky, when leavesburn up against it and the sun shines clear. Yes. I am looking forward to that.