---
title: A Calm Day
date: 2011-04-13 22:08:00
category: blog
tag: vintage
---
        The making of today’s dinner became something of a Norse Saga, complete with dragon. 

 Chili. Chili sounds good, not too complicated, not too long. I even thought about it in time to plan ahead. I’d need a few things from the store. Well, it’s a beautiful day. Everybody get your shoes on. Everybody get your hoodies. Everybody stand around calmly while we wait for everybody else to use the toilet. CALMLY!!! 

 That’s better. Let’s walk. 

 Ahhhh, how nice. The neighborhood looks so different from the sidewalk. Maybe I’ll never use a car again. Daffodils, hyacinths, dandelions. Lovely, just hold the stroller across this street. HOLD THE STROLLER!!! 

 Thomas and William helped me stir and dump things in the pot. “Mommy, I feel so good when I make food for our family,” confides my sweet William. Heartwarming moment. 

 A minute later I run to break up a fight and turn into a Mean Monster Mommy (there’s the dragon.) I go to my room for a time out. While I’m there, the chili burns. Unsalvageably. 

 It’s still such a beautiful day. Let’s pack a quick picnic. Everybody get your shoes on. Everybody get your hoodies. Everybody stand around CALMLY… 

 The river rolls by our perfect picnic spot. Birds call softly in the treetops. Golden buttercups mingle sweetly with deep purple violets, carpeting our bower. 

 I forgot a knife. 

 In the end, we found a stapler in the van and used that to spread the peanut butter and jelly. (!?) 

 Then we had to jump back in the car and run home because someone had forgotten to use the bathroom while we were all standing around CALMLY. 

 I’m just glad that’s over for one day. 