 The day after his house fire, my brother loaded two large, friendly, very doggy dogs onto the bed of his truck and drove out into the country in search of their kennel spa. The plan was to call his wife for more specific directions as he got closer to the kennel, and it may come as no surprise that my own brother has just a twinge better directional skills than I. That is, he could probably manage to drive his way out of the paper bag that I would still be lost in, but might not find the destination around the corner from it. 

 Also, his phone was uncharged. 

 Some time later he showed up knocking on a perfect stranger’s door with two crazy dogs leaping about behind, tears streaming down his cheeks. “My house burned down, and I’m lost. Could I please charge my cell phone?” he choked out, to the complete astonishment of the kindly door answerer. 

 Of course they let him. And they brought him drinks and little snack bags, and soothed his ruffled soul with milk and honey. They had seen him on the news. 

 And I am astonished myself as the stories flow in, at the sheer quantity of beautiful, thoughtful, generous gifts of compassion by strangers and friends alike. Even by curmudgeonly old neighbor men who had quarrels with them in the past. By the electrician who came to fix the wires over their street and left fifty bucks in his handshake. By the bakery lady down the road bringing over a box of her best sweets. By nearly everyone who encounters them during this difficult time. 

 It all restores my rather dimming view of mankind in general and our own society in particular. We just need a whopping great disaster once in awhile to remember what and who we are. If only all disasters could be as simple to fix as this one, and bring as little true tragedy in their wake. 