---
title: Bugs
date: 2012-02-15 22:40:00
category: blog
tag: vintage
---
        Once every year, when the windchill drops so low you have to force yourself out of the car and across their parking lot, the OSU Biodiversity Museum opens its doors to science-enthusiasts of all ages. It is wonderful.

Real geologists in funny white beards handed my children fossils and meteors and chunks of gold (Thomas’ favorite), carrying even me away in their enthusiasm.

Fish-loving grad students lit up when Polly squealed happily over some crazy-looking water larvae and chatted about obscure life-cycles as long as we could stay.

Roaches and earwigs skittered over entymologists’ shoulders and under their nametags. I had to stifle a shriek, but William was as fascinated as I’ve ever seen him. Hmm, more bug time in our homeschool…?

Peter engaged at the art table as he sketched a wasp from a preserved model, and later told me that was his first time really noticing what one looked like.

Jack plied the botanist with questions about chlorophyll-less plants, and Nick just really, really liked the stuffed owls.

Every homeschooling mother has some area of anxiety. Science happens to be mine. I just wanted to run around to each of those lovely, kooky, enthusiastic experts and ring their hands and say, “God bless you, dear sweet scientist, for being excited about mites, or fossils, or wasps, or owls, or fish, or moss, or what-have-you. God bless you!” But I didn’t. Because that would have been too peculiar, even for the roach man.